---
layout: post
title: Gamers Struggle of Maintaining Top YouTuber Status
subtitle: YouTubers are losing out on making money due to unintended consequences of YouTube
image: /img/pewdiepie.jpg
bigimg: /img/analytics.png
---
## TL;DR Emerging Gamers are not given the chance because YouTube's algorithm favors the more popular Gaming celebrities.

If a person wants to find a way to make a living off of a YouTube channel, they will find that the first several videos they put out will often vanish into the YouTube void. It takes a creative plan and tons of determination to have the ability to monetize one's videos. While YouTube is a great source for people to view content such as sports highlights, funny videos, and video game playthroughs; trying to upload something creative and unique can be quite a tough task. Even though a YouTuber might have a large viewer base and many people watching their videos, the ability to use Google Extensions such as AdBlockPlus hurts YouTube celebrities. Many viewers use AdBlock because they do not want to waste 20 seconds. However, viewers often fail to realize that by turning on AdBlock they are taking away money from the creator of the video. The existence of AdBlock combined with the fact that there are over 2,000 channels with at least one million subscribers, makes standing out from the competition a grueling task.

There are many Gaming YouTuber's who have the charisma and personality to attract a wide and diverse fan base; however, they face many challenges such as dealing with false copyright strikes, decline in ad growth, and commitment to producing quality content in their videos. One particular YouTuber, DSPGaming, aka DarksydePhil, finds a way to make a living off of YouTube by uploading game playthroughs, and other vlog series such as: "Ask the King", "DSP Tries It", and The Hateful Truth Video Game Series". DSP has been a very successful Youtuber for the greater part of 8 years but due to the negligence of YouTube's front desk he is currently having a tough time paying his bills. Just this week he put out an hour long video on how Google/Youtube ad revenue issues have posed a serious threat to his business [DSPGaming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D2I6WjbBxlM). In the month of February, which is supposed to be prime time for revenue to increase, DSP lost revenue. According to YouTube's analytics, this is due to YouTube/Google ads losing profitability, and as a result DSP is earning a whopping 35% less compared to January. In addition, many other popular YouTuber's such as Boogie2988, Videogamedunkey, and ETC Show are also suffering financially from Google's Ad Services. In particular, Boogie2988 claims that he is losing out on a lot of money because his videos have been flagged for "not ad-friendly".

One solution to prevent this whole ad issue is to encourage people to use the YouTube service called YouTube Red. YouTube Red is a paid-subscription service that provides many benefits such as ad-free videos and exclusive content for $9.99 per month. If people take advantage of this service, it will ensure that YouTube creators earn money and continue to make quality content for their channel. Additionally, to help YouTubers earn money, Google Chrome's Web Store needs to remove all AdBlock services. There are several suspicions that Google does not benefit from AdBlockPlus, so why would their own web browser's store contain any AdBlock services? Another alternative could be to introduce a donation button for YouTubers and/or a $5 fee to subscribe and gain access to the YouTuber's content. Lastly, YouTube could take a similar route to Forbes' blacklisting of their content. For example, if oneuploade opens up an article on Forbes using an AdBlock service, they will be required to turn it off in order to view that article.   

YouTube, a video sharing platform, can be an extremely demanding job for people looking to become a gaming celebrity. YouTuber's must produce original content, comment on their videos, and create a social media campaign to promote their channel. While other jobs might be demanding too, a typical office job has the weekends off. A YouTuber does not have as much free time since their salary is not fixed and is directly affected by people watching their videos. So when there is Ad Revenue problems on YouTube, YouTubers have a right to complain because they could have a lot of views on their videos, but not receive the proper credit for the hard work they put into their videos. Moreover, The exponential growth in terms of million subscriber channels will most likely continue and this will result in more stress for YouTubers. It is also important to note that over half of the total channels on YouTube receive less than 500 page views per video and only 0.33% get more than one million views. If this growing trend continues, many YouTubers will feel less inclined to produce quality content because there is little incentive to spend hours making a video that only gets minimal views. It is imperative that YouTubers never give up due to the current issues plaguing the website. One reason for optimism is that thousands of channels are making six figure salaries a sign that YouTube can still be a prosperous business.



Sources: [Gizmodo](https://www.gizmodo.com.au/2016/09/youtube-stars-are-blowing-up-over-not-getting-paid/),
[Tubefilter](http://www.tubefilter.com/2016/04/04/youtube-millionaires-2000-channels/),
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D2I6WjbBxlM&feature=youtu.be&a),
[Monetizepros](https://monetizepros.com/video-monetization/why-you-probably-wont-get-rich-famous-on-youtube/)

<small> <a title="Google Analytics logo" href="https://pixabay.com/p-1925495/?no_redirect">Google Analytics logo</a> a pixabay photo by <a href="https://pixabay.com/en/users/Tumisu-148124/">Tumisu</a> shared under CC0 Public Domain </small>

<small> <a title="PewDiePie at PAX 2015" href="https://flickr.com/photos/camknows/20445592444">PewDiePie at PAX 2015</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/camknows">camknows</a> shared into the public domain using <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication (CC0)</a> </small>
