---
layout: post
title: The Consequences of Online Shopping
subtitle: Amazon has hurt local business all throughout the United States
image: /img/amazon.jpg
bigimg: /img/amazon.jpg
---
## TL;DR Amazon, while making shopping easier and more accessible than ever, has created a monopoly that poses the threat of competing businesses going bankrupt.

I am not going to lie; I use Amazon for more than half of my shopping. What’s even more important is that  millions of  American consumers are doing the same. With Amazon Prime, there are a plethora of discounts and benefits for the shopper such as free two-day shipping, 20% off newly-released video games, access to Amazon streaming services, and even benefits for other services such as Twitch. Amazon grants Prime members with a free Twitch Prime membership gives members free in-game content every month, ad-free viewing, and a free subscription every month. As a constant user of Twitch, these perks are very beneficial and save me a decent chunk of money. Last week, I redeemed my free NBA 2K 75,000 Visual Currency Code which helped me build my MyTeam. This saved me $20 because I am an Amazon Prime member. For a gamer like me, Amazon gives me everything that I need at my fingertips; however, I often forget that it may be affecting businesses such as my father’s. While Amazon is a go-to source for everything shopping related there is a major drawback: It has become a monopoly of sorts that is crushing brick-and-mortar retail businesses. Furthermore, that drawback is costing many middle class Americans jobs. So I face a dilemma between using Amazon to buy my products or requiring a little bit more effort by going to the mall. The indecisiveness I have about going to the store has made me lean towards online shopping as it saves time, but I often forget about how my decision is affecting millions of Americans.


Essentially, Amazon creates a monopoly in the industry when local companies such as GameStop, BestBuy, and Target have to compete with the biggest online shopping retailer in the world. In addition, while Twitch Prime gives its user’s access to Twitch streams with the added bonus of an advertisement-free platform, this hurts the Twitch streamer who is trying to make a living themselves. Moreover, Twitch is revolutionizing gaming by augmenting online chatting and streaming games to further social interaction, which other internet-based resources are often without.  

Another drawback of consumers being able to buy all of their needs online is that it encourages people to be more sedentary at a time when most Americans would benefit by moving more and getting out of the house. Shopping can be equated with exercise like going the gym. Studies have shown that the majority of American consumers need more exercise, benefiting them physically as well as improving their attitude and motivation to work at their jobs. Leeds Metropolitan University conducted a study to examine how exercise during the day can affect workers’ performance (Friedman). The study showed that on days when employees visited the gym, they could manage their time more effectively, be more efficient, and have better interactions with their colleagues (Friedman). Based on this study we can come to the conclusion that jobs need to have a gym or place to work within the company itself, and that people are more productive in all areas of their lives when they are moving more, thereby emphasizing the importance for all Americans to be shopping in brick-and-mortar stores.

The issue our consumer economy faces, both as a result of where dollars are spent and the employment opportunities between online and brick-and-mortar stores is not dissimilar from a previous article I wrote detailing how small YouTubers are not given the same chance as the more popular YouTube celebrities overshadowing them. Small YouTubers are dealing with the same type of problem as small businesses. YouTube celebrities are gaining more subscribers at an alarming rate, and Amazon Prime Subscriptions keep exploding in popularity. The lack of control over a retailer's foot traffic into their brick and mortar store is a similar problem, to how non-celebrity YouTubers cannot control who watches their videos. In the same way that these YouTubers felt the need to complain,  local businesses have the same right to complain as they have no control over a company like Amazon which is ruling the industry. For example, a small YouTuber could produce high quality content but when a user searches for content similar to that video it will not ever be seen, or in other words, it will fall into the YouTube void.

While the profit margins of small businesses are being affected the most by Amazon, the stockholdings of popular department stores such as Macy’s, Gap, and Kohl’s fallen significantly in the past year (Peterson). “Internet retailers (led by Amazon) have added $27.8 billion to their apparel revenue since 2005, while department stores have lost $29.6 billion” (Peterson). The reason this is happening is because Amazon and other online retailers have extended their business to the fashion apparel. Additionally, studies anticipate that department stores will only consist of “just 7% of the total US apparel market in 2020 versus 11% today and 26% in 2005” (Peterson). One reason I think small business such as in the clothing industry are struggling is because of the lack of creativity in their products. Since consumers do not like the style of clothes at mom and pop stores, they would rather buy clothes that are cheaper, easily accessible and more to their tastes on Amazon. This is discouraging because as Amazon pushes toward automation, consumers will miss out on going to a store and getting that important interaction between employee and consumer.

Putting the gloomy retail forecasts aside, there are some ways we can prevent Amazon from impeding local businesses from growing and that involves state and local government intervention. This would mean that the government has the right to impose a tax on all Amazon products. For example, the government has proposed the Marketplace Fairness Act which is a bill that would “let states compel online retailers to collect sales tax no matter where they are located” (Power). I think this bill would benefit most businesses  and provide them the opportunity  to pass savings onto the consumer since they can avoid the local sales tax. Most importantly, since Amazon is likely to sit atop the industry for a while, Amazon should look to extend its business by teaming up with United Parcel Service (UPS), FedEx, and DHL. For example, Amazon can “sell its shipping services to others once its capacity is large enough” (Divine). Another example of Amazon teaming up with other businesses is during early 2016 Amazon and Wells Fargo offered discounted student loans to Amazon Prime Student members. Yet another solution is that small, privately owned retailers  could join Amazon as Professional sellers and market their products online, although at the cost of $.99 per item sold, plus additional selling fees. Finally brick-and-mortar stores can sell their products for less thereby making them more appealing to consumers.

While our solutions could make shoppers more aware of Amazon's dominance and encourage them to shop locally, many statistics shown that Amazon has no signs of slowing down. In 2016, the number of people who hopped on the Amazon Prime train increased 35% to 54 million (Isidore). During the holiday selling season of 2015, “two-hundred million more items received free shipping” than in the previous year (Balakrishnan). Retail research analysts at JPMorgan believe that “physical store locations” will “be cut by a third over the next five to 10 years” (Balakrishnan). Furthermore, since Amazon collects sales tax from many states, their cities have allowed them to set up local warehouses or shipping centers which will make shipping faster ‘next-day delivery’ (Manjoo). In other words this means that Prime members will get their products delivered to their house or apartment in a day rather than two days. The forecasts for Amazon to put other retailers out of business is only growing. Even though it would make our lives a bit more expensive, and slightly less convenient, it’s time for the government to step in with tax mandates to protect the small and large brick-and-mortar retailers that provide vital income to millions of Americans.


<u>Works Cited</u>

<small> Balakrishnan, Anita. "The Battle Has Just Begun: Amazon vs. Stores." CNBC. CNBC, 28 Dec. 2015. Web. 04 May 2017. </small>

<small> Divine, John. "What Industry Will Amazon Enter Next?" U.S.News. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 4 May 2017. </small>

<small> Friedman, Ron. "Regular Exercise Is Part of Your Job." Harvard Business Review. N.p., 05 Nov. 2014. Web. 04 May 2017. </small>

<small> Isidore, Chris. "Amazon Prime Now Reaches Nearly Half of U.S. Households." CNNMoney. Cable News Network, 26 Jan. 2016. Web. 04 May 2017. </small>

<small> Manjoo, Farhad. "Amazon’s New Push for Same-Day Delivery Will Destroy Local Retail." Slate Magazine. N.p., 11 July 2012. Web. 04 May 2017. </small>

<small> Peterson, Hayley. "There's a Major Threat to US Retailers That No One in the Industry Is Talking about." Business Insider. Business Insider, 12 May 2016. Web. 04 May 2017. </small>

<small> Power, Steven. "Why Amazon Is Bad for (Small) Business." The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 12 June 2013. Web. 04 May 2017. </small>

<small> <a title="Amazon.com arrivals" href="https://flickr.com/photos/peskylibrary/1478686778">Amazon.com arrivals</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/peskylibrary">Pesky Library</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>
