---
layout: post
title: Intrinsic motivation, the Cure to Combat Plagiarism
subtitle: Students Need to Be Graded Differently to Encourage Originality
image: /img/thinking.jpg
bigimg: /img/thinking.jpg
---
## TL;DR Plagiarism can be completely eradicated if students are graded on their engagement in the classroom and professors focus on the positives each student has to offer.

It is important for students during their junior and senior year of high school to develop passions and interests. This sparks intrinsic motivation and makes them value their learning rather than just memorizing notes for an exam but allow freedom in how they want to learn. Boarding schools have started to implement hands-on experiences outside of the classroom. We need our students to get out in the field to learn rather than just sit in the classroom as it can be boring and also affects their intrinsic motivation and thus their outlook on school. In my opinion, student participation should be weighted more heavily as employers are looking for candidates who are driven and genuinely care about what they do. While I think papers are an important component of one's education, I do feel that exams and quizzes discourage students as they put a burden on their social and emotional health. For example, at many of the rigorous colleges and universities in the United States are infamous for the student suicide rate.

The Academic Disciplinary Board at many colleges and universities would probably object that grades should be replaced with an effort and participation check-mark system, but I argue students would be more motivated to work harder and value their education. Especially since there are many students that have demanding schedules that include heavy-workloads compounded with many extracurricular activities. The national suicide rate among 15 to 24 year old has "increased modestly but steadily since 2007: from 9.6 death per 100,000 to 11.1, in 2013" (Scelfo). In addition, the presence of kids with psychological problems has increased by an incredible 13 percent from 2013 to 2015 (Scelfo). Therefore it should be of top-priority to make grades based on a check-mark system. Also During a panel session at Stanford called "Everyday Ethics", panelists discussed the link between cheating and social pressure "put on students "to prize high grades over education" over values such as "creativity and imagination" (Palmer). This example is further proof that grades put too much pressure on students to learn just to memorize the material for the test instead of learning for fun.

One's intrinsic motivation can be threatened by having to keep up with people who are always getting grades. For example, getting a good job can be very competitive especially in fields such as a doctor, an engineer, and computer scientist. Coincidentally, these fields all provide the potential for high incomes. At Ivy League schools, many students feel pressured to compete with their fellow peers which also affects their emotional health and lack of sleep. Many parents also force their kids to attend "elite" colleges which also puts added pressure on them to succeed and live up to these high expectations. Furthermore, increased technology has allowed parents to view their student's constantly updated grades online and creates additional pressure for students.

One step to encourage students is to take away grades from universities. Two schools that administer this practice are the University of California, Redlands and Sierra Lawrence College. Secondly, we need to implement games into classrooms. John Shindler, a faculty member at California State University, Los Angeles, has expressed that games can "raise the level of interest and excitement while accomplishing the same degree of content processing" (Ritchie). Technology has made it possible for different ways of learning curriculum, and games would keep kids engaged in the classroom. Last semester I took a Freshman Seminar in game theory and I studied how the concept of gamification can help motivate consumers to buy that company's products. For example, Footlocker's VIP club gives the customer perks such as discounts on shoes and gift cards after every $100 they spend. Lastly, college professors "can have students turn in minute papers in response to a question posed in class and reward this effort based on submission and not scientific accuracy" (Schinske).

As a current college student, I can completely understand why students' outlet to plagiarism. While there are students that plagiarize, they often forget that by doing so they are not learning how to deal with adversity and difficulties of writing. In my opinion, success is achieved when one perseveres through obstacles. So by my definition of success, plagiarizing, students are hindering their growth as a student and regressing as writers. Professors need to be more lenient in assigning their writing assignments, by not making their students feel guilty of their "bad writing" and instead focus on students speaking their mind because every student has their own writing style and something unique to offer. Thus by allowing students to speak their mind, they can feel more confident and more motivated in writing their own personal work. As a result, student participation rate would most likely skyrocket and kids would feel less inclined to plagiarize.  

<u>Works Cited</u>

Lee, Kristen. "Your Mental Health Is More Important Than Your Grades." The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 22 Oct. 2015. Web. 01 May 2017.

Palmer, Barbara. "Pressure for Good Grades Often Leads to High Stress, Cheating, Professors Say." Stanford University. N.p., 23 Feb. 2005. Web. 01 May 2017.

Ritchie, Mike. "Competition in the Classroom: Motivating or Destructive?" Info.thinkfun.com. N.p., 12 Nov. 2015. Web. 01 May 2017.

Scelfo, Julie. "Suicide on Campus and the Pressure of Perfection." The New York Times. The New York Times, 27 July 2015. Web. 01 May 2017.

Schinske, Jeffrey, and Kimberly Tanner. "Teaching More by Grading Less (or Differently)." CBE Life Sciences Education. American Society for Cell Biology, Summer 2014. Web. 01 May 2017.

<small> <a title="Think" href="https://flickr.com/photos/planetschwa/99535218">Think</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/planetschwa">planetschwa</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>
