---
layout: post
title: A New Generation of Social Interaction
subtitle: New Friendships Arrive with Emergence of Twitch as a Way to Chat and Interact with Streamers and Viewers
image: /img/masseffectandromeda.jpg
bigimg: /img/masseffectandromeda.jpg
---
## TL;DR Gaming keeps growing in ways that can get people together from all across the world and since gaming is only getting more popular, a social-interactive hub creates unique opportunities.

When students come home from school on Friday afternoon, their first instinct is to take their mind off all the exams and papers they had to complete during the week, and unwind by watching television or playing video games. In other words, the typical student does not plan to study on Friday or Saturday night because weekends are their time to relax and participate in hobbies and interests that they did not have time for during their hectic school week. One of the most popular of these hobbies is playing video games. Walk through any dorm on the weekend and you will be amazed at the number of students that are absorbed in playing video games on their computers and laptops.

While many students play video games by themselves or with their peers, the emergence of the online gaming channel Twitch has revolutionized gaming in ways like never before. For many, the ease of communicating with other viewers and their entertainment of watching others play video games is more enjoyable than actually playing the game themselves. For example, when a new game is released on Tuesday I often watch a streamer play through a decent chunk of the campaign of the game to see if I may want to purchase it. Also, sometimes I may completely skip over the game because I am so hooked on seeing the streamer play it. The abundance of Twitch streamers makes it easier than ever to decide on if I want to buy a particular game. Most importantly with the internet we are more educated about each game and so we learn how to make smart decisions financially. Another perk of live-streaming is the entertainment of observing a streamer "rage" and complain at the game. This bonus included with the implementation of a live chat on Twitch creates an instant audience that provides unfiltered reactions and opinions. Kids today find this instant feedback very entertaining and refreshing. The ability to comment freely about a particular game of specific player is something only recently has been available to video gamers. Moreover, many viewers can subscribe to their favorite streamers to allow them to feel more united with the streamer and other subscribers and in effect create more friendships.I believe that gaming will continue to evolve with new ways to play and watch as the connection between streamer and viewer gains in popularity

While Twitch is one of the biggest websites for gamers, another social-interactive hub is YouTube, which provides many benefits for gamers like me. For example, when gamers face difficulties in video games they seek the many tutorials and guides that exist on the internet. One of the most popular sites is YouTube. For example, recently when I was playing the challenging video game Dark Souls II, I had difficulty navigating through it. Dark Souls II is a cryptic game that does not explain the controls or provide the instructions of what the player has to do. During one of the boss fights, I looked up a YouTube video on how to get past the Ancient Dragon boss, which is very hard to defeat because of its unpredictable attacks. In addition, a comment section and ability to directly message the uploader makes it helpful for the gamer. Some gamers, while willing to accept a difficult challenge, would rather see how a game's story plays out. Spending countless hours dying to a boss can frustrate players and thus the abundance of videos on YouTube can make the player feel at ease by allowing them to get over that frustrating level. Other ways internet services have benefited the gamers exist on consoles with the ability to share screenshots, clips, and connect via party chat.


As a constant user of internet sites such as YouTube and Twitch, the ability to communicate with others about a game that I am currently playing, creates a sense of community and satisfaction in knowing that gamers all around the world are with me on this journey too. I cannot speak to what it was like in early gaming history, but from speaking with others who gamed during the early years expressed that they had to rely solely on themselves or their friends who had the game. Nowadays, there is always a group, clan, and community to be a part of. Making what was once a fairly anti-social activity into a social activity has given a sense of comfort and promotes teamwork for gamers who use the internet for their gaming desires.




<small> <a title="Mass Effect: Andromeda Writer Leaves Bioware, Heads to Bungie" href="https://flickr.com/photos/bagogames/24703752579">Mass Effect: Andromeda Writer Leaves Bioware, Heads to Bungie</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/bagogames">BagoGames</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
